Doc: Semantic Versioning (#3417)
aristanetworks/ansible-avd: ansible_collections/arista/avd/docs/semantic-versioning.md

<!--
  ~ Copyright (c) 2023-2024 Arista Networks, Inc.
  ~ Use of this source code is governed by the Apache License 2.0
  ~ that can be found in the LICENSE file.
  -->

# Semantic Versioning

The AVD project follows Semantic Versioning ([SemVer](https://semver.org/)).

> This document describes what attributes and APIs are stable and follow SemVer and which ones may change between minor releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This document describes which attributes and APIs are stable and follow SemVer and which ones may change between minor releases.
```

## Ansible Collection (arista.avd)

!!! note

    - All roles input variables follow SemVer. Any breaking changes will, at a minimum, be communicated with a deprecation notice for 6 months.

!!! warning

>     - No Ansible modules, action plugins, filter plugins, test plugins, or vars plugins are covered by SemVer.

Reviewer: I am not sure we can do this under the certification rules of Automation Hub.

Reviewer: Maybe we need to call out certain things as "internal_<name>"? We should ask the team.

Author: Per our discussion this morning I've listed all plugins supporting SemVer.

### Role: eos_designs

Inputs:

- All role input variables follow SemVer.

>   - Any breaking changes will, at a minimum, be communicated with a deprecation notice for 6 months.

Reviewer: 6 months ahead of what? This is not super clear, as we could deprecate in 4.11 but release 5.0 the day after.

Author: refactored and removed

> Outputs:

Reviewer: We should also mention the variable `avd_switch_facts` and the internal variant `switch.*`. Both are subject to change at any time, and should not be used.

Author: updated in table!

- eos_designs `structured_configuration` may change between minor releases.

>   - Structure config can change to use new keys when keys are deprecated in the eos_cli_config_gen role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Structured configuration can change to use new keys when keys are deprecated in the `eos_cli_config_gen` role.
```

  - The resulting EOS CLI configuration generated from eos_cli_config_gen will be maintained, unless in rare cases when addressing a bug.
  - Breaking changes will be communicated in the release notes.
- Fabric documentation artifacts may change between minor releases.

>   - Breaking changes to YAML/JSON/CSV outputs will be communicated in the release notes.

Reviewer: YAML outputs include structured config, but we do not normally call out when we change that. Since this is under fabric documentation I think only CSV applies.

Author: refactored

### Role: eos_cli_config_gen

Inputs:

- All role input variables follow SemVer.
  - Any breaking changes will at a minimum be communicated with a deprecation notice for 6 months.
  - Keys will then be documented as removed in the next major release.

Outputs:

> - EOS configuration generated from eos_cli_config_gen follows SemVer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- EOS configuration generated by `eos_cli_config_gen` follows SemVer.
```

### Role: dhcp_provisioner

Inputs:

- All role input variables follow SemVer.
  - Any breaking changes will at a minimum be communicated with a deprecation notice for 6 months.
  - Keys will then be documented as removed in the next major release.

Outputs:

- Structured configuration output may change during minor releases to accommodate changes in the ansible-cvp collection.
- The resulting DHCP configuration will be maintained, unless in rare cases, when addressing a bug.
  - Breaking changes will be communicated in the release notes.

### Role: build_output_folders

Inputs:

- All role input variables follow SemVer.
  - Any breaking changes will at a minimum be communicated with a deprecation notice for 6 months.
  - Keys will then be documented as removed in the next major release.

Outputs:

- All role ouptus follow SemVer.

### Ansible Plugins

- No Ansible modules, action plugins, filter plugins, test plugins, or vars plugins are covered by SemVer.
  - Functionality may change in minor releases to accommodate the project's needs.
  - Breaking changes will be communicated in the release notes.

> ## PyAVD

Reviewer: Maybe a table for pyavd and a table for ansible avd with a row per role/function would be simpler?

Author: Great suggestion, I converted it to tables!

!!! note

    - All documented function input variables follow SemVer. Any breaking changes will, at a minimum, be communicated with a deprecation notice for 6 months.

!!! warning

>     - No internal/undocumented functions are covered by SemVer, changes may also not be documented in release notes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Internal/undocumented code is not covered by SemVer. Changes may not be documented in release notes.
```

### Function: validate_inputs()

Inputs:

> - Function input variables follow SemVer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Function parameters and values follow SemVer.
```

Reviewer: same elsewhere

  - Any breaking changes will, at a minimum, be communicated with a deprecation notice for 6 months.

### Function: get_avd_facts()

Inputs:

- Function input variables follow SemVer.
  - Any breaking changes will, at a minimum, be communicated with a deprecation notice for 6 months.

Outputs:

> - `avd_facts` may change between minor releases.

Reviewer 2: Can't this one also cause breaking changes?

Reviewer: If people are using our facts (`switch.*`) then yes.
This is called out in the docs already:
```
While all templates can leverage the internal switch facts (switch.*) to customize the interface descriptions, the values are not part of the officially supported data models, and may change without notice.
```

Reviewer 2: So it may cause breaking changes (but not to AVD as AVD would be adapting to the changes already). 
Perhaps a call out here as a courtesy?

Author: addresses with [5e959f0](https://github.com/aristanetworks/avd/pull/3417/commits/5e959f0099a8581aa36f926659d4c9e10b59747a)

### Function: get_device_structured_config()

Inputs:

- Function input variables follow SemVer.
  - Any breaking changes will, at a minimum, be communicated with a deprecation notice for 6 months.

outputs:

- `structured_configuration` may change between minor releases.
  - Structure config can change to use new keys when keys are deprecated in the eos_cli_config_gen role.

>   - The resulting EOS CLI configuration generated from eos_cli_config_gen will be maintained, unless in rare cases when

Reviewer: when ??

Author: fixed

<!--
  ~ Copyright (c) 2023-2024 Arista Networks, Inc.
  ~ Use of this source code is governed by the Apache License 2.0
  ~ that can be found in the LICENSE file.
  -->

# Semantic Versioning

The AVD project follows Semantic Versioning ([SemVer](https://semver.org/)).

This document describes which attributes and APIs are stable and follow SemVer and which ones may change between minor releases.

## Ansible Collection (arista.avd)

> All roles input variables follow SemVer. Any breaking changes will, at a minimum, be communicated with a deprecation notice in the previous release. Keys will then be documented as removed in the next major release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All roles input variables follow SemVer. Any breaking changes will, at a minimum, be communicated with a deprecation notice in the previous release, except for the ones resulting from a bug fix that will be documented in the release notes. Keys will then be documented as removed in the next major release.
```

| `eos_validate_state` | ✅ | ✘ | The generated reports and other artifacts may change between minor releases.<br>Breaking changes to CSV outputs will be communicated in the release notes.|
| `dhcp_provisioner` | ✅ | ✘ | Structured configuration output may change during minor releases to accommodate changes in the ansible-cvp collection.<br>The resulting DHCP configuration will be maintained, unless in rare cases, when addressing a bug. |
| `build_output_folders` | ✅ | ✅ | |

### Plugins

| Plugins | Inputs Follow SemVer | Outputs Follow SemVer | Notes |
| ------- | :------------------: | :-------------------: | ----- |
| Filter: `add_md_toc` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Filter: `convert_dicts` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Filter: `decrypt` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Filter: `default` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Filter: `encrypt` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Filter: `generate_esi` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Filter: `generate_lacp_id` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Filter: `generate_route_target` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Filter: `hide_passwords` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Filter: `is_in_filter` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Filter: `list_compress` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Filter: `natural_sort` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Filter: `range_expand` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Filter: `snmp_hash` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Filter: `status_render` | ✅ | ✅ | |

> | Action: `batch_template` | ✘| ✘ | Internal plugin, not intended for external use. |

Reviewer: This would be used by others, so we should support this under SemVer.

Author: addressed in fbb906d

| Action: `configlet_build_config` | ✘ | ✘ | Internal plugin, not intended for external use. |
| Action: `cv_workflow` | ✅ | ✅ | The resulting CloudVision configuration will be maintained, unless in rare cases, when addressing a bug. |
| Action: `eos_designs_facts` | ✘ | ✘ | Internal plugin, not intended for external use.  |
| Action: `eos_designs_structured_config` | ✘ | ✘ | Internal plugin, not intended for external use. |
| Action: `eos_validate_state_reports` | ✘ | ✘ | Internal plugin, not intended for external use. |
| Action: `eos_validate_state_runner` | ✘ | ✘ | Internal plugin, not intended for external use. |
| Action: `inventory_to_container` | ✘ | ✘ | Internal plugin, not intended for external use. |

> | Action: `set_vars` | ✘ | ✘ | Internal plugin, not intended for external use. |

Reviewer: This would be used by others, so we should support this under SemVer.

Author: addressed in fbb906d

| Action: `validate_and_template` | ✘ | ✘ | Internal plugin, not intended for external use. |
| Action: `verify_requirements` | ✘ | ✘ | Internal plugin, not intended for external use. |
| Action: `yaml_templates_to_facts` | ✘ | ✘ | Internal plugin, not intended for external use. |
| Test: `contains` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Test: `defined` | ✅ | ✅ | |
| Test: `global_vars` | ✅ | ✅ | |

## PyAVD

> All functions input variables follow SemVer. Any breaking changes will, at a minimum, be communicated with a deprecation notice in the previous release. Keys will then be documented as removed in the next major release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All functions input variables follow SemVer. Any breaking changes will, at a minimum, be communicated with a deprecation notice in the previous release, except for the ones resulting from a bug fix that will be documented in the release notes. Keys will then be documented as removed in the next major release.
```
